www.siths.org
	Staten Island Technical High School
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
485 Clawson Street,                                                        Mark Erlenwein, Principal
Staten Island, NY 10306
718-667-3222 
	

Staten Island Technical High School 
2023-2024 Course & Elective Guide 


School History
	Mission & Vision Statement 
	Science 
	Career & Technical 
	Mathematics 
	English 
	Social Studies 
	Russian Bookmark
	Performing Arts 
	Health & Phys Ed 
	

Staten Island Technical High School History
Staten Island Technical High School is a New York City public high school established in 1988.  Its student body is comprised of lifelong learners, innovation facilitators, contributors to the betterment of society and intellectually inquisitive young men and women. The impact of these leaders and problem solvers reaches beyond the scope of academics.  They possess the skills required to positively impact the present and future challenges of the real world.  Staten Island Technical High School’s student body is reflective of the diversity of the City of New York.


In September of 2005, Staten Island Technical High School was granted the status as New York City’s 7th Specialized High School by the New York City Department of Education.  New York City’s Specialized High Schools are comprised of the most academically gifted and talented students.


The entire student body is comprised of 1,365 students.  Staten Island Technical High School’s college and career preparatory curriculum provides rich and challenging learning opportunities.  Through courses and Work Based Learning experiences in Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, Mathematics (STEAM), Humanities and Athletics, students develop a strong aptitude for real-world leadership and problem solving focusing on academics, teamwork, communication and interpersonal skills.  A newly restructured, cutting edge Career Development Program, named the SITHS Guild, was formed centering on Work Based Learning experiences, entrepreneurship and internships via our new MakerSpace and Incubator program










Curriculum, Vision & Mission Statement
VISION: SITHS prioritizes rigorous academics balanced with physical and mental wellness. Our goal is to develop strong social skills, exemplary character, scholarship, service, leadership, and citizenship for all members of the school community. We cultivate innovation through the development of 21st Century Learning Skills (Collaboration, Communication, Creativity and Critical Thinking). Our school community is committed to equity and excellence by ensuring that every student understands how to use the curriculum to create meaningful impact on the world around them. Each individual in our school environment will feel valued and have access to opportunities and support to achieve their greatest potential and succeed in a multicultural society. RTA


MISSION: The SITHS community fosters the development of well-rounded, passionate life-long learners through rigorous, engaging academics and participation in student activities, athletics, social-emotional and work-based learning, cultural responsiveness, and community service. SITHS cultivates strong collaboration, communication, creativity, and critical thinking skills. We strive to instill in our students a sense of wonder, curiosity, and a growth mindset to meaningfully contribute to and shape a society that values equity, excellence, and empathy. (D31 Miss/Vis)   RTA
In support of our school vision and mission, it is our pledge to:
* Support close communication between home and school that welcomes greater family involvement, accomplished through students and families sharing an active role as a team member within the school community.
* Enable students to demonstrate mastery of the curriculum and growth in Habits of Success through engaging in project-based learning and the use of modern technologies that support literacy and communication skills required in the real world.
* Engage students in College & Career readiness activities starting in the 9th grade, throughout their senior year. 
* Encourage and promote student involvement in local, national and global issues through rigorous and relevant classroom instruction, literature, activities, clubs and experiential learning opportunities that are culturally and historically relevant.
* Encourage lifelong physical and mental health through fitness, social emotional support systems, mindfulness, meditation and peer-mentorships.
* Provide and encourage ongoing individual professional development opportunities for our faculty and staff, with continued emphasis on self care, physical fitness & mental health.


2022-23 THEORY OF ACTION:
IF SCHOOL LEADERS provide the resources, tools, technology, professional development, and time for teachers to plan and collaborate regularly amongst each other to support shifts in alternative assessment; if school leaders collect and share data and provide feedback based on learning targets and school-wide objectives.


THEN TEACHERS WILL BE ABLE TO collaborate and rethink teaching and learning strategies, to develop project-based lessons and real-world connections & alternative assessments that measure learning in various ways; they will also be able to analyze data and identify trends to improve and target individualized instructional needs in order to provide regular feedback among all stakeholders, which measures growth, success and celebrates learning beyond the assigning of grades through the implementation of systemic restorative & SEL/CRSE practices.


AND STUDENTS WILL BE ABLE TO demonstrate mastery of the curriculum through collaboration, communication, creativity and critical analysis; and students will be able to exercise voice/choice in their learning from embedded project-based  experiences, and make real-world connections to become responsible for their own academic and personal growth, celebrating their learning beyond the earning of grades through developing resiliency.
________________


School Administration
Mark D. Erlenwein (Merlenw@schools.nyc.gov) - Principal 
Dr. John Davis (JDavis41@schools.nyc.gov) - AP of Operations & Programming 
Peter Dellegrazie (PDellegrazie@schools.nyc.gov)- AP of Mathematics, World Language & High School Admissions
Alexis Kirschbaum (AKirschbaum@schools.nyc.gov) - AP of Pupil Personnel Services, Security & College Admissions
Joseph Manzo (Jmanzo2@schools.nyc.gov) - AP of Social Studies, Technology, and Career & Technical Education
Felicia Rodriguez (FGiunta@schools.nyc.gov)- AP of Science & Testing
Noelle Sanguinedo (NSanguinedo@schools.nyc.gov) - AP of English, Health & Physical Education,Perf Arts, Music, Student Activities 


Guidance & College Admissions Office
Lisa Barnett (LBarnet2@schools.nyc.gov) - Guidance Counselor, College Now Program Chair, Programming Chair
Ellen Devine (EDevine@schools.nyc.gov) - College Guidance Counselor/Scholarship Coordinator
Margaret Ferrigno (MFerrigno@schools.nyc.gov) - Guidance Counselor/Special Needs Coordinator
Cathy Ecker (Cecker@schools.nyc.gov) - Guidance Counselor
Christopher Maddaluno (Cmaddaluno@schools.nyc.gov) - Guidance Counselor
Jessica Pisano (JPisano5@schools.nyc.gov) - School Social Worker
Valentina Vinci (Vvinci@schools.nyc.gov) - Guidance Counselor










________________






Student Directions - Completing the Course Selection Survey
	* The hard deadline for the completion of this survey is February 4, 2022.  After this date the survey will be closed and no longer accessible. 
*  At the onset of the Spring Term in February 2022, you will be scheduled to meet with your guidance counselor to review and discuss the classes that you have chosen. It is very important that the administration receive this information to help us decide how many sections of classes will be offered in the Fall of 2022.
* This survey must be completed only by the student through their Naviance account login information.  Directions for finding the survey are as follows:
Log-in to your Naviance account.
Click on the “About Me” tab.
To the left of your screen, you will see “Surveys to Take”.
Click on “View All Surveys” in blue to expand the list fully.
Current 10th Graders: Click on “2022-2023 Junior Course Selection Survey” only.
Current 11th Graders: Click on “2022-2023 Senior Course Selection Survey” only.
Remember to click the “Update” button at the bottom of the screen.
Parents/Guardians – You are receiving this as a communication to be advised of this process.  Please take the time to sit with your child and assist in their decision making.  Below, within this document, you will find the Staten Island Technical High School 2022-2023 Course & Elective Guide.  This Guide outlines our faculty, courses offered, along with a brief description of each course.


Link to AP Selection Process: http://bit.ly/36V2OFX






























Advanced Placement (AP) Testing Policy:
	

Staten Island Technical High School encourages continued participation in the College Board’s Advanced Placement program to ensure that our students’ college applicant profile is aligned with other competitive national and international applicants.


Staten Island Tech offers 17 AP courses annually. Every student has access and is guaranteed to graduate with 2-3 AP courses via our Universal AP History initiative and in the spirit of the NYC Dept of Ed’s AP for All / Equity and Excellence initiatives.  Access to the remaining 14-15 AP courses are determined using an objective merit-based selection process. Each of the 17 AP courses have a culminating exam that participating high schools worldwide administer each May. Staten Island Technical High School, fosters the expectation that all students who take an AP course will also take the corresponding AP Exam for the following reasons outlined below:
* Earn College Credit* - Your AP score could earn you college credits before you even set foot on campus.
* Earn Advanced Placement* - Your AP score can let you skip introductory courses in college.
* Save Money and Time - Earning credit / placement can enable you to graduate college early.
* Stand Out to Colleges - Taking AP courses and AP Exams shows colleges you’ve tackled college-level work.
*Nearly all colleges in the USA grant credit and placement for qualifying AP scores. Keep in mind that AP scores may be recognized by your initial, transfer and post graduate colleges on the journey towards your career goals.  


Advanced Placement Exam Timeline & Protocols:
Sept - Oct: Students register for AP course(s), via College Board online portal. 
* Payments due via “Total Registration” by 10/29.
November 15th: 
* AP Exam School orders due to the College Board based upon AP Course Section Registers.
* A record will be maintained for all students who do not register and/or do not take their respective AP exam(s), which will be included and submitted in their College Admissions Applicant Profile for the Mid & Final Transcript Phases during senior year.
May : AP Exam Administration
June: In the case of students who originally registered and indicated their intent to take AP exam(s), but were not present to take the AP exam or schedule a makeup exam due to illness, notification to all colleges will be made that the student’s college applicant profile has changed.




















Science
	

In the Science Department, all students will complete Living Environment, Chemistry and Physics before graduation. In addition to the core curriculum, students with an aptitude for science are advised (based upon academic strengths and career interest profiling) to continue their studies via Advanced Placement and College Level science courses in subjects such as Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Psychology, Environmental Science, Forensics and Biotechnology.  Each subject (Core and AP) has an intensive laboratory component.  This provides students with a strong hands-on experiential learning experience to complement and support classroom instruction.  
Many students at Staten Island Tech have strong aspirations for careers in STEAM. Therefore, the demand for AP Science courses are often greater than the availability.
 
Science Courses
Chemistry / Lab (Physical Sciences | Grade 9) 
Physics / Lab (Physical Sciences | Grade 10) 
AP Biology (Grade 11/12)
AP Chemistry (Grade 11/12)
AP Physics 1 (Grade 10)
AP Physics 2 (Grade 11/12)  
AP Physics C: Electricity and Magnetism (Grade 12)
AP Environmental Science (Grade 11/12)
AP Psychology (Grade 11/12)
Forensic Science* (Grade 11/12)
Biotechnology* (Grade 11/12)
Human Anatomy & Physiology (Grade 11/12)
Applied Physics (Grade 11/12)
Science Engineering Research Program (Grade 10/11/12)
Physics In Medicine (Grade 10)
Medical Lab Tech (Grade 10)
*Denotes college credits available.


Science Faculty


* Bianca Brandon 
* Jody Cavaliere
* Jonathan Colangelo 
* Jennifer D’Anna 
* Dr. John Davis 
* Raymond Ferrigno 
* Jodi Fertoli 
* Dr. Jared Jax
* Eileen Labora 
* Danielle Nickolauk
* Eric Olsen
* Brianne Rivera
* Felicia Rodriguez
* Jennifer Toner 
* Michael Weitzman




________________


Science Course Descriptions
Chemistry / Lab (Physical Sciences | Grade 9) - The Physical Setting/Chemistry course is designed to introduce the student to a wide range of chemical applications.  The main focus is on basic and fundamental principles of Chemistry.  At the completion of the course, students should have a working knowledge of the basic principles of Chemistry.  Included in the topics covered will be the chapters on matter and energy, atomic structure, chemical bonding, the periodic table, stoichiometry, kinetics and equilibrium, acids and bases, redox and electrochemistry, nuclear chemistry and organic chemistry.  The course will begin with a basic definition of chemistry and builds upon each new principle.  Due to the nature of scientific learning, each unit throughout the semester will build upon previous units and covered material.  There are five lecture periods each week plus a chemistry lab that meets once a week.  At the end of the course, it is expected that the student takes and passes the regents examination.
Physics / Lab (Physical Sciences | Grade 10) - Honor's Regents Physics is a one-year course designed to provide a general understanding of the fundamental principles of physics and, at the same time, to achieve a deeper understanding of these principles. The syllabus includes five core units: Mechanics, Energy, Electricity and Magnetism, Wave Phenomena, and Modern Physics. Additional topics include Motion in a Plane, Internal Energy, Geometric Optics, and Nuclear Energy. There are five lecture periods each week plus a physics lab that meets once a week.  At the end of the course, it is expected that the student takes and passes the regents examination. For additional information please refer to the NYS Physics Core Curriculum which can be found here: http://www.p12.nysed.gov/ciai/mst/pub/phycoresci.pdf
AP Biology (Grade 11/12) -  AP Biology is a college level two semester introductory course in general biology. Most students who enroll in the equivalent of this course in college are usually interested in further study of biology or medicine. There is less emphasis on breadth of content coverage and more emphasis on in-depth conceptual understanding and science practices. As a result, this course requires students to spend more time on inquiry based learning of concepts and development of scientific reasoning skills such as formulating a scientific argument, analyzing case studies, designing a plan for collecting data, analyzing data, applying statistical tests, and connecting concepts across disciplines. SITHS’s goal is to engage students in learning biology so that this course becomes a positive component of their high school experience, that not only prepares them for more advanced study in biology (if they choose to pursue that) but also enriches their life.  Because we emphasize USING facts about biology rather than memorizing information, SITHS hopes the teaching methods  used will significantly change the way students view the world.  Sometimes students will practice applying the material alone, and sometimes students will do so with members of their learning team.  SITHS wants to foster an interest in biology that continues beyond the date of the final exam, prepares students to make effective choices in the voting booth, enables students to be citizens of the world, and helps them acquire skills that can be used in other endeavors.  The sequence of topics is as follows: scientific inquiry, ecology and plant biology, biochemistry, energy and cells, genetics, evolution, and human anatomy and physiology. At the end of the course, it is expected that the student takes and passes the respective Advanced Placement examination.
AP Chemistry (Grade 11/12) - The AP Chemistry course provides students with a college-level foundation to support future advanced coursework in chemistry. Students cultivate their understanding of chemistry through inquiry-based laboratory investigations and classwork, as they explore topics such as: atomic structure, intermolecular forces and bonding, chemical reactions, kinetics, thermodynamics, and equilibrium.  The course curriculum is compatible with Chemistry courses in colleges and universities. At the end of the course, it is expected that the student takes and passes the respective Advanced Placement examination.
AP Physics 1 (Grade 10) - AP Physics 1 is an algebra-based, introductory college-level physics course that explores topics such as Newtonian mechanics (including rotational motion); work, energy, and power; mechanical waves and sound; and introductory, simple circuits. Through inquiry- based learning, students will develop scientific critical thinking and reasoning  skills. This course requires that 25 percent of the instructional time will be spent in hands-on laboratory work, with an emphasis on inquiry- based investigations that provide students with opportunities to apply the science practices. No prior coursework in physics is necessary. Students should have completed geometry and be concurrently taking Algebra II or an equivalent course. Although the Physics 1 course includes basic use of trigonometric functions, this understanding can be gained either in the concurrent math course or in the AP Physics 1 course itself. At the end of the course, it is expected that the student takes and passes the respective Advanced Placement examination.
AP Physics 2 (Grade 11/12) -  AP Physics 2 is an algebra-based, introductory course.  Students cultivate their understanding of Physics through inquiry-based investigations as they explore these topics:  fluids; thermodynamics; electrical force, field and potential; electric circuits; magnetism and electromagnetic induction; geometric and physical optics; and quantum, atomic and nuclear physics. AP Physics 2 is a full-year course that is the equivalent of a second-semester introductory college course in algebra-based physics. Prerequisite classes are either Regents Physics or AP Physics 1. At the end of the course, it is expected that the student takes and passes the respective Advanced Placement examination.
AP Physics C: Electricity and Magnetism (Grade 12) - The AP Physics C Electricity and Magnetism course is equivalent to a one semester, calculus-based college-level physics course.  It is especially appropriate for students planning to specialize or major in physical science or engineering.  The course explores concepts such as electrostatics, conductors, capacitors and dielectrics, electric circuits, magnetic fields, and electromagnetism. You’ll do hands-on laboratory work and in-class activities to investigate phenomena and use calculus to solve problems.  Introductory differential and integral calculus is used throughout the course. Prerequisite classes include either AP Physics 1, AP Physics 2 or AP Physics C: Mechanics. Co-requisite or prerequisite classes include AP Calculus. At the end of the course, it is expected that the student takes and passes the respective Advanced Placement examination.
AP Environmental Science (Grade 11/12) - This challenging course will take a global perspective to explore the status of sustainable Planet Earth. Students will examine environmental science through labs, field work, case studies, and discussion.  As global citizens, students will investigate the practices and services in local, regional, national, and global spaces.  First, students will investigate water use followed up with local water testing to explore the overall health of Staten Island’s waterways.  Over the next few units, students will investigate the landscape and its biodiversity, discussing how biomes are changing and their impact on various species, including humans.  This leads to an understanding of human population growth and its impacts on the environment, demonstrating the elasticity of the earth as well as its limitations.  After identifying the consequences of our growth rate, students will determine our energy use and prioritize our energy resources in terms of economic and environmental factors.  This segues into climate change – what it is, why it’s happening, its effects, and what we can do.  The course will culminate in a final unit of sustainable cities, where students will discuss and create their own sustainable community based on the information gathered throughout the year.  By the end of the year, each student should take away a concrete understanding of the various footprints on our planet and a plan on how to minimize it. At the end of the course,it is expected that the student takes and passes the respective Advanced Placement examination.
AP Psychology (Grade 11/12) - AP Psychology is the study of behavior and mental processes. The course is the equivalent of a college level introductory course in Psychology.  Usually, the college class is taken over the course of one semester.  For students intent on pursuing a major in psychology or neuroscience, this is a required course.  For other students, the completion of this course and success on the AP Psychology Examination may serve to fulfill a social science core requirement mandated by select colleges and universities.  This course is designed to help students develop invaluable skills that include the ability to present information logically via discussions and written papers as well as to carry out proper research techniques.  Psychology also fosters the development of critical thinking and problem solving skills. Psychology is a discipline that is driven by terminology.  It is not enough for students to be able to  define the terms;they must be able to apply them to real life situations.  As such, a  large part of the course is designed to focus on different case studies which allow for such application.  The course also includes some lab work as well classroom demonstrations and computer simulations.  The sequence of topics is as follows:  Research Methods and Statistics, Neuropsychology, Sensation, Perception and States of Consciousness, Learning, Cognition, Developmental Psychology, Personality, Abnormal Psychology, Social Psychology, Motivation, Emotion and Health Psychology. At the end of the course, it is expected that the student takes and passes the respective Advanced Placement examination.
Forensic Science* (Grade 11/12) - Forensic Science is defined as any application of scientific analysis to matters of law. It is a broad, interdisciplinary field that requires in-depth knowledge of chemistry, biology, physics, laboratory techniques, and legal procedures; as well as excellent skills in written communication, verbal communication, and computer applications. The purpose of this course is for students to gain experience in the major investigative techniques currently used by forensic scientists, crime scene investigators, and other law enforcement agencies; and to develop an understanding of the scientific concepts that serve as the basis for these techniques. Students will also familiarize themselves with the law governing evidence collection, admissibility of scientific evidence in court, search and seizure, as well as relevant portions of the New York State Penal Law. Students will improve their skills in critical thinking, scientific writing, creative writing, laboratory skills, and verbal communication. This course will require students to spend more time on inquiry- based learning of concepts and development of scientific reasoning skills. Topics will include, but are not limited to the following: overview and history of forensic science, crime scene processing, evidence examination, physical matching, impression evidence, tool marks and firearms comparisons, fingerprint analysis, trace evidence and microscopy, questioned document analysis, arson investigation, death investigation, serology, bloodstain pattern analysis, and DNA testing. Some of the topics covered in this course are disturbing in nature. Students will be discussing violent crimes as part of the normal course of study in forensic science. Please be reassured that any readings, photos, or other images used in this class are solely for the purposes of instruction. If a student thinks that an upcoming topic will cause mental or emotional distress, they are encouraged to discuss this with the course instructor PRIOR to the class. Students will be given advance notice of every topic of study, and  will be “over-prepared” for any material they will see or read about. The College of St. Rose offers Criminal Justice college credits for this course.
Biotechnology* (NOT offered in 2022/2023, returning in 2023/2024) (Grade 11/12) - In this course, students will demonstrate full understanding of the role of biotechnology in society, including the risks and benefits. They will learn the significance of biotechnology in pharmaceutical development, agriculture, forensics, genetic testing, industrial products, and scientific research. Students will also learn how a biotechnology company works,  the roles of its employees, and understand  how bioinformatics is used in research. Through this course, students will learn basic laboratory skills used in academic and industrial biotechnology laboratories, including best practice. Students will also learn the necessity of sterile technique and its importance in the laboratory. The College of St. Rose offers Biotechnology college credits for this course.
Human Anatomy & Physiology (Grade 11/12) - This course is designed to be a study of the human body for students with an interest in pursuing a career in a health-related field. Topics include anatomical structures, physiological systems, and body functions. Students will apply the principles of physiology to human health and evaluate the applications and career implications of physiology and anatomy principles
Applied Physics (Grade 11/12) - This is a second-year high school physics course designed to give students an alternative to the AP Physics classes in Junior and Senior year. This course is a 1-year course that will explore and apply more advanced topics in physics in a hands-on approach to learning, where students will take part in a number of design projects throughout the year.  You will be presented with tasks related to topics in physics that build upon the Regents course by researching, designing, building and analyzing data to creatively problem solve. Since this is a second-year physics course and can only be taken by juniors and seniors you will also be utilizing Autodesk products such as CAD, Inventor and Fusion to help you with your designs. You will need to work collaboratively to complete these tasks and your interpersonal skills will be put to the test.
Science Engineering Research Program (Grade 10/11/12) - The SERP courses are designed to train students to conduct scientific research and compose a scientific research paper, with the ultimate goal to compete in city, state, and nationwide science fairs.  This course encourages and enables students to think critically, ask questions, conduct research, determine outcomes using the scientific method, and express this information in a cogent, scientific manner. The course will consist of diverse activities meant to challenge students, enhance their problem solving capabilities, and improve  written and verbal communication skills. All of this will enable students to conduct effective, solid research projects.  Students enrolled in SERP are given opportunities to perform original research alongside nationally recognized leading scientists and mentors. 
Physics In Medicine / Lab (Physical Sciences | Grade 10) - Honors Regents Physics Medicine is a one-year course designed to provide a general understanding of the fundamental principles of physics. The syllabus includes five core units: Mechanics, Energy, Electricity and Magnetism, Wave Phenomena, and Modern Physics. Additional topics include Motion in a Plane, Internal Energy, Geometric Optics, and Nuclear Energy. There are five lecture periods each week plus a physics lab that meets once a week. Physics in Medicine will take the same physics principles and apply them to the medical field. Many students do not realize that physics is an important aspect of the medical field and this course will bridge the gap between physics and medicine.  At the end of the course, it is expected that the student takes and passes the regents examination. For additional information please refer to the NYS Physics Core Curriculum which can be found here: http://www.p12.nysed.gov/ciai/mst/pub/phycoresci.pdf


.
________________


Career AND Technical 
	

The Career and Technical Education (CTE) program offered at Staten Island Technical High School (SITHS) is consistent with its original charter and mission statement to produce graduates who are well-rounded and equipped to handle the challenges of college and career readiness through a robust curriculum in engineering and technology. SITHS philosophy has been to engage students in complex and rigorous college-level and real-world experiences which introduces them to various opportunities in technical fields.  Throughout the four years, students will be given the opportunity and resources to engage in a career exploration program that covers a multitude of career pathways, specializing in the fields of engineering, information technology and digital arts.
 
All students are required to successfully engage with these courses during the 9th and 10th grade.  These introductory courses will expose students to various engineering disciplines and careers, and build basic skills in communication, critical thinking, collaboration, creative problem solving and design.  Additionally, students will be exposed to specific technology applications that align with current trends in industry.
 
The SITHS Pre-Engineering curriculum then continues with optional electives in the 11th and 12th grades to build greater depth in a field of interest. Students who successfully finish the entire pre-engineering sequence will receive a special CTE Endorsed Diploma.  
 
Use the symbols below to determine which SITHS CTE courses are required, as well as which courses have the potential to earn college credits.  
If you see  = Required Course.   
If you see  = College Credits Available.


Tech Department Showcase Video  


9th grade students: All 9th grade students are required to take Intro to STEM Engineering & Robotics (1 semester) and Introduction to Technology & Careers (1 day per week).  Students will then have the option of choosing between Intro to AV Engineering & TV Studio, or Computer Science & Engineering (1 semester).  The course descriptions are linked below.


 - Intro to STEM Engineering & Robotics 
 - Introduction to Technology & Careers
 - Intro to AV Engineering & TV Studio                 OR              Computer Science & Engineering
 
10th grade students: All 10th grade students are required to take C.A.D. / Civil Engineering & Architecture.  Students will then have the option to take an additional CTE course in AP Computer Science Principles, Electronics & Green Technology, Adv. AV Engineering & TV Studio 1, or Design and Fabrication.  The course descriptions are linked below.
 
,  - C.A.D. / Civil Engineering & Architecture
 - AP Computer Science Principles
Electronics & Green Technology
Adv. AV Engineering & TV Studio 1
Design & Fabrication
 11th and 12th grade students: As an 11th or 12th grade student the options are the same for both years.  We strongly encourage you to select courses of interest so that you can build depth of knowledge in a field, which will help you make better decisions about future courses, college major and ultimately your career. The course descriptions are linked below and are broken down by field of study.


Engineering
Electronics & Green Technology
Adv. C.A.D. Civil Engineering & Architecture (Two Versions - 3D Modeling or Graphic Arts)
Fundamentals of Engineering
Design & Fabrication 


Information Technology
 - AP Computer Science Principles
Advanced Computer Applications & Development (Must take AP Computer Science Principles First)
 
Digital Arts
Adv. AV Engineering & TV Studio 1
Adv. AV Engineering & TV Studio 2/3 (Must take Adv. AV Engineering & TV Studio 1 First)
 - Introduction to Film (College Now) 


Other
 - Career Financial Management & Entrepreneurship
Work Based Learning 1
Work Based Learning 2 (Must take Work Based Learning 1 First)
 
Career & Technical Education (CTE) Department
Click on the names below for contact information and to learn more about our department.


Joseph Manzo, Assistant Principal
Dr. Jared Jax, CTE Coordinator
Jennifer Fitzpatrick, Work Based Learning Coordinator
 
Faculty
* Joseph Buro
* Alison Barone
* Jennifer Fitzpatrick
* Dr. Joseph Frusci 
* Kaitlin Geraghty
* Everton Henriques 
* Michael Van Buren 
* Mark Wantowski 
* Michael Whalen
* Amanda Stefanese
  
  

Course Descriptions
Intro to STEM Engineering & Robotics (Grade 9 - 1 Term)
Introduction to STEM - Engineering and Robotics (STEM) is a mandatory half-year freshman level course that introduces various applications of the math and science concepts encountered in secondary education.  The major focus is to expose students to various engineering fields, the design process, research and analysis, teamwork, communication methods, engineering standards, and technical documentation. Students will develop skills and understanding of course concepts through activity, project, and problem-based (APPB) learning. Used in combination with a teaming approach, APPB-learning challenges students to continually hone their interpersonal skills, creative abilities, practical execution, and understanding of the design process.  It also allows students to develop strategies to enable and direct their own learning, which is the ultimate goal of education.
Beginning with an overview of the ABET approved engineering disciplines, students will learn and apply the design process through basic problems and applications of Mechanical, Materials, Civil/Architectural, and Computer/Electrical Engineering.  In addition to basic building and programming using the Tetrix robotics and Arduino platforms, students can expect to encounter structural member properties, bridge/tower/cantilever prototyping and testing, computer aided drafting, 3D modeling, technical documentation, and DIY design prototyping, spanning the core engineering disciplines.  At various points in the course, students will be required to manage multiple unrelated projects at once, requiring the critical development of efficient group dynamics and proper execution of time management.    
Intro to Audio/Video Engineering & TV Studio (Grade 9 - 1 Term)  
Freshman will have the option to take Intro to Audio/Video Engineering & TV Studio, which enables students to learn the technical engineering aspects of operating the video and audio hardware and software used in both television studios and mobile-based multimedia productions within a multi-million dollar HD TV studio. Students will have an in-depth understanding of camera functionality, light-to-video conversion, microphone technologies, and video editing using Adobe Premiere.  This is achieved through a process of developing skills through individual and group-based activities and practical assessments, along with learning the skills and procedures necessary to operate mobile and studio based TV and recording equipment.  The skills learned in this course prepare students for future study and careers in A/V engineering, television production, and filmmaking.  However, these skills are also transferrable to practical applications in any courses/careers students will encounter, as our society continues to rely less on the printed word and more on a variety of audio-video media as our means of communication in the 21st century.   
Computer Science & Engineering (Grade 9 - 1 Term) 


Freshman will have the option to take the fundamentals of computer science through an introduction to programming in Python. This course provides an introduction to programming and the Python language. Students are introduced to core programming concepts like data structures, conditionals, loops, variables, and functions. This course includes an overview of the various tools available for writing and running Python and gets students coding quickly. It also provides hands-on coding exercises using commonly used data structures, writing custom functions, and reading and writing to files. This course will also introduce topics in web development using HTML, CSS and Flask.






Introduction to Technology & Careers (Grade 9 -  2 Terms)   
The goal of this course is to provide you with the technical ability, knowledge, and skills necessary to succeed in your future endeavors and prepare you for college and career readiness.  We are committed to providing you with a unique experience while at Staten Island Tech, supporting each of you as you work towards building the 21st century skills needed to stand apart in this competitive market.  In order to achieve this, the Introduction to Talknology and Career and Technical Education Lab course is focused on applying a high tech, low tech, and no tech exploration of: 


* Acquiring and accurately using protocols for effective communication in oral, written, and multimedia/digital formats
* Examining multiple sources of career information from diverse formats to make informed career decisions and manage personal career plans
* Analyzing existing and emerging computer technologies to research and explore the global impacts to industry and the comprehensive job market
* Developing the key ‘soft skills’ needed for workplace success
* Understanding how an individual's digital media presence is used by potential employers and post-secondary agencies to evaluate candidates.
* Exploring work-based learning opportunities to demonstrate and expand upon knowledge and skills gained during classroom instruction.
* Students will develop the skills needed to transition from the classroom to the workplace; these competencies include core academic and technical knowledge, employability skills, and job specific training.
The skills learned in this class can be applied broadly as you progress throughout both your educational and professional careers. This course will also encourage collaboration and teamwork with your peers and with your growing network, promoting the inclusion of divergent and creative perspectives.  An emphasis will be placed throughout the entire course on the 21st century learning skills and relevance of a concept called Oracy.  Oracy is a recently developed curriculum designed to provide students with the opportunity to learn effective communication techniques - verbal, non-verbal, and written - that can be applied as they progress throughout their educational and professional careers. The purpose of this new course will be to prepare students for social interactions, workplace readiness, and life. Using the tools developed by School 21 in England, and through the incorporation of Work Based Learning practices and the HOPE Skills, students are given the chance to develop the necessary soft skills and speaking skills necessary for success in any industry.  Through use of the Oracy toolkit and talk protocols, students will “learn to talk” and “talk to learn.”
C.A.D./Civil Engineer & Architecture (Grade 10 - 2 Terms) 
Students learn how to design in 2D and 3D using professional, industry-standard CAD software suites. Technique and creativity come together to allow beautiful, functional designs to come to life with precision. Students also learn how to analyze CAD designs for the purpose of interpretation and documentation of such drawings.  As part of our CTE program, students learn how to grow professionally. They balance creativity, efficiency, and functionality in their work. Final designs are successful with the correct combination of aesthetics and attention to function.




The class also includes discussion and use of skills for rapid prototyping and physical representation of designs and artwork. Students can use 3D printing technology in plastics and resin. They can also explore laser cutting and engraving, as well as plasma cutting, in wood, acrylic, metal, glass, leather, and other materials. Robust finishing techniques for 2D material or 3D material are available and part of instruction.
Students primarily use Autodesk software. Autodesk leads the industry globally in professional and educational Computer Aided Design (CAD). The first term focuses on the most widely and long standing used CAD software, AutoCAD. At the end of the first term all students become industry certified in AutoCAD through Certiport, the only globally accepted program.  The second term follows a 3D driven perspective with Revit, Inventor, Blender/3D Studio Max, or AutoCAD in  any combination or a single program with great depth.
​This is a project based learning (PBL) class. The instructor teaches the material by conducting demonstrations often at first until students get used to the interface and general workflow in Autodesk CAD software. As the term develops, less demonstrations occur and a normal day will consist of students working on their projects getting individualized help from the instructor and also giving / receiving help from their peers. The projects drive the students to gather vast depth inside knowledge of technique and commands so they develop their own optimized style of being a CAD professional. There is NO daily homework, and NO written exams. Projects carry grades based on deadlines and performance. Occasionally timed projects with no discussion or help permitted occur to assess critical skill-sets.
The CAD class comes with multiple credentials for the students. As mentioned earlier, during the course of the year students are required to take a Certiport examination to become industry certified as an Autodesk AutoCAD certified user. This is free and the rate of success with no outside prep-work is effectively 100%. More user level certifications are available for free as optional ventures to the students. The course also grants the students CUNY - College of Staten Island credit for ENS 110 - Engineering Graphics provided students take other CTE courses in our school before graduating. The credits appear on a CUNY transcript and are transferable to other institutions. Lastly, CAD at SI Tech counts as the required art credit for graduating high school in NYC/NYS.
Visit https://www.sitechcad.com/our-cad-classes.html for more information.
Adv. Audio/Video Engineering & TV Studio 1 (Grade 10,11,12 - 2 Terms) 
Advanced A/V Engineering 1 is a full year elective that builds upon what was learned in Intro to A/V.  During the first term, more in-depth techniques and skills are covered in class and students produce a series of short videos to demonstrate these new concepts, which include shot composition, chroma keying (green screen), and more advanced capabilities of the Adobe Premiere Pro editing software.  During the second term, students will produce more complex studio productions, such as an in-studio interview and a news program.  We finish the year with students working in groups to reproduce a film scene.   Throughout the year, students will not only hone their filmmaking and video production abilities but also cultivate various job skills such as time management, interpersonal communication, and collaboration as they work with their peers to produce all of these projects.  


Advanced Placement Computer Science Principles Courses (Grade 10, 11 or 12 - 2 Terms) 
There are two versions of the course that you can choose from. Both versions of AP CS Principles culminate in an AP exam.


Python: The Advanced Placement Computer Science Principles course centers on the python programming language and provides an introduction to the basic principles of computer science (CS). The lessons and materials used by students incorporate programming while also integrating all other AP CSP big ideas: creativity, abstraction, data and information, algorithms, the internet and global impact. The curriculum engages students and supports the development of problem solving skills honing in on the computational thinking practices as indicated in the AP CSP curriculum framework. Students learn to create socially useful computational artifacts using Python. 


The curriculum also emphasizes communication and collaboration in a project-based approach and classroom environment. This course involves a strong writing component. Students will maintain a portfolio of their work, which will include several performance tasks in the areas of programming and the impact of computing technology.
https://apstudent.collegeboard.org/apcourse/ap-computer-science-principles 


JavaScript: For students who are interested in building user interfaces AND/OR backend databases. This course is a rigorous project-based curriculum centered around building skills desired in the industry. Students will continue to learn key front-end development concepts in JavaScript while building a GitHub portfolio of web-based projects. Students will then transition to a focus area of their choosing. Data Visualization, Reactive User Interfaces, Design and backend server architecture are among the specializations offered. Students may choose to learn backend architecture using Python. The skills in this course are directly transferable to other programming languages.


The curriculum also emphasizes communication and collaboration in a project-based approach and classroom environment. Students will maintain a portfolio of their work, which will include several performance tasks in the areas of programming and the impact of computing technology.
https://apstudent.collegeboard.org/apcourse/ap-computer-science-principles
Electronics & Green Technology (Grades 10, 11 or 12 - 2 Terms)  
Electronics is a full year course offered at Staten Island Technical High School that will cover theoretical concepts of digital components and circuitry, and then reinforce it in the lab setting by using National Instruments “Multisim 11” software. Two Makerspace hands-on projects - designing and building Digital Clock/Timer and Portable Bluetooth Speaker are part of the electronics curriculum.
Students will gain core knowledge and applications of principles representative of the various fields of study within the Engineering industry including Green Technologies such as solar and wind power. The Electronics two-term curriculum will enable students to explore various aspects of circuit theory with direct and alternating current. This includes analysis of various types of circuits using passive and active components and is complemented with the use of virtual lab activities that reinforce what students learn. The second term curriculum builds on previous knowledge of circuit theory to explore the effects of components such as inductors, capacitors, filters, transistors, amplifiers etc. This leads into basic understanding of radio and amplifier circuits in communications. The use of National Instruments “Multisim 11” lab software activities enhances and reinforces this instruction.
 The following topics will be covered:
* Number Systems: Binary, Hex, and Octal.
* Boolean Algebra – Algebraic, Standard, Canonical, and Karnaugh Forms of Boolean Functions.
* Optimization of Boolean Functions. two through five variables functions simplification using K-Map Method.
* Combinational Logic – (SSI – Small Scale Integration) – Gate Diagrams, Decision Making Digital Circuits.
* Optimizing circuits for cost, speed, and size.
* MSI (Medium Scale Integration) and PLD’s ( Programmable Logic Devices)
* The following components will be covered: Adders, Multiplexers, ROM’s, Programmable Logic Arrays (PLA), and Programmable Array Logic (PAL).
* Synchronous Sequential Logic (Memory Elements) – JK, D, T, and RS Flip-Flops.


Design & Fabrication “Makerspace” - (Grades 10, 11 or 12 - 2 Terms)


Design and Fabrication (D&F) is a full-year elective open to grades 10-12, that takes place in the SITHS Makerspace. The Makerspace is fully equipped with fine art materials, tools, and machinery including a CNC router, and a Plasma Table. The ideal student is one interested in fine arts, fabrication, technology, and engineering. This class will build upon the skills students may already have and develop new ones. Students will have the opportunity to design and develop their own passion projects.


In addition to developing their own projects, throughout the year students will assist their peers in the Makerspace as apprentices. Subject teachers will bring down their classes for project-based learning (PBL) assignments at which time D&F students will assist them with safety, developing their projects, painting, sculpture, woodworking, and using machinery/tools, among other things.
The following topics and skills will be covered but are not limited to:
* Painting
* Sculpture
* Woodworking
* Fabrication
* Product Design and Development


In addition to the skills listed above, students will learn career and life skills such as time management, interpersonal communication, community projects, and collaboration as they work with their peers to produce all of these projects.


Advanced Audio/Video Engineering & TV Studio 2 & 3 (Grade 11,12 - 2 Terms) 


Students who excel in Advanced AV 1 and wish to continue their video production education can elect to take Advanced A/V 2 and Advanced A/V 3.  These courses are combined into one class period, so the class is made up of a mixture of juniors and seniors.  The major project in both Advanced AV 2 & 3 is the production of “The SIT Down,” a bi-weekly news program made for the entire school community.  “The SIT Down” combines both studio and mobile production at a very technically complex level.   The program is a collaboration of the entire class, with Advanced 2 students serving on the general crew positions and Advanced 3 taking on the more leadership-oriented producer roles.  This demanding undertaking will draw on all the skills and talents that students have developed in Intro to A/V and Advanced A/V Engineering 1, as they will now be the engineers utilizing the technology in the school’s professional-grade television studio.  Other projects throughout these courses include a short film, a public service announcement, multiple news story field packages, as well as an opportunity to serve on the crew of various productions for the school community as needed throughout the year. 


Advanced Computer Applications & Development (Grade 11 or 12 - 2 Terms)
There are two versions of the course that you can choose from. 


Web Development:  Students will develop, maintain and document full-stack applications that target school and community needs. Students will work as part of an organization that mirrors real world development work environments to develop applications that have real world impact. Students are required to have completed AP CSP and can speak directly with Mr. Whalen regarding the types of applications currently in development




Cloud Computing & Cybersecurity:Students will have the opportunity to take part in a cloud computing and ethical hacking course that will offer the opportunity to develop and apply the skills below to the projects listed.  


1. Advanced Python – Students will be taking their fundamental knowledge of python much deeper to work with other programs and systems that will support the cloud and ethical hacking.  This will help integrate neural networks, as well as create a platform for AI, machine learning and data science.
2. Linux Bash Scripting – Since Linux will be the operating of working with Raspberry Pi’s, understanding how to script in the Linux will allow students to better interact with these devices.
3. Virtualization – Since we can run numerous virtual images on Raspberry Pi’s, understanding how virtualization works will allow students to create numerous virtual PC’s to run in cloud instances, which will give them their own private cloud for each virtual machine running.  We will also be running Kali Linux in VMware to conduct all ethical hacking projects.
4. Windows Powershell Scripting – Some of these virtual images will be running Windows for projects we want to do.  Understanding how to run and script in Windows Powershell will allow students to automate tasks and processes that will make their cloud computing more seamless and efficient.  
5. Networking and Security – With a solid foundation of connecting devices on and across networks, students will be able to access their private cloud from anywhere in the world, as well as make it accessible to anyone they give permission to.  Baked into this section will be the security needed to secure their devices and virtual images on the network from breaches and unauthorized access. 
 
Cloud Computing Projects – 
For these projects to happen, students will need to have the basic understanding of the Python scripting that goes into the setup for this.  Understanding Linux and Bash scripting to initially setup the Raspberry PI and allow for virtual machines to run on them.  They will need to understand how to create and use virtual machines, which will host the operating system of their choice that will allow them to take on any of the above-mentioned projects. Using Python to set up their Raspberry Pi to be a server.  The purpose of creating a server from Raspberry Pi will be to have it act as a host.  Projects that will include the Raspberry Pi as a host will be:  NAS or file server, Web server, Online game server, Media streaming server, Home automation server, Print server, Personal cloud server


Ethical Hacking Projects - 
Using basic network, python, and Linux skills, students will learn the fundamentals of ethical hacking. For these projects to happen, students will need a basic understanding of Python and Networking. Prior to jumping into these projects, students will learn basic networking and Linux skills to allow them to complete all ethical hacking projects. Projects that are grounded in ethical hacking will be:  Software Keylogger, Website and Email Spoofing, Brute Force Network Attacks, DNA Encryption Program, Pen testing and Packet Sniffing
Career and Financial Management & Introduction to Entrepreneurship (Grade 11 or 12 - 2 Terms) 
The Career and Financial Management Course is given as a dual initiative through the University of Iowa BizInnovator program and STEM Innovator Program, which is the entrepreneurship curriculum toolkit that enables educators to teach the "entrepreneurial mindset" by encouraging creativity, innovation, critical thinking, and problem-solving - and also equipping students with the skills necessary to succeed and excel.  Students earn 3 college credits from the University of Iowa after completing this course.  This program blends the traditional topics covered in Career Financial Mgmt & Entrepreneurship curriculum to learn about the features of our economy, explore a variety of careers, learn the skills and competencies needed for success in the workplace and to begin to become financially literate, through a myriad of tasks and activities which invoke real-world finance and economic scenarios involved in achieving solutions.


Fundamentals of Engineering (Grade 11 or 12 | 2 Terms) - Application Required.
Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) is a dynamic upper-level high school survey course intended to expose students to the principles and concepts encountered in a post-secondary engineering course of study. Students employ mathematical and scientific concepts in the solution of engineering design problems. They develop problem-solving skills and apply their knowledge of research and design to create solutions to various challenges, documenting their work and communicating solutions to peers and members of the professional community. Students will further advance their computer aided design (CAD) and building skills developed in the prerequisite STEM course, via hands-on applications that utilize Autodesk Inventor Professional and the TETRIX Robotics platform, to produce larger scale viable design solutions to any associated problems.  Core topics will include, but are not limited to, the design process, energy transfer, fluid and electrical power, green energy, robotics and control systems, flight mechanics, kinematics, electronic design, structural member properties, an industry certification, and a capstone challenge.  Students can expect to survey mechanical, civil, architectural, environmental, electrical, computer, aeronautical, aerospace, information, manufacturing, and industrial engineering fields through a blend of theoretical, virtual, and hands-on applications.  Students will be registered with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and earn the Technician, General, and/or Amateur Extra Class operator license in radio operations.
Adv. C.A.D. (Grade 11 or 12 | 2 Terms) - Application Required.  (Two Versions 3D Modeling / Graphic Arts)
In order to take Advanced CAD you must have completed our first CAD class in good standing and complete an application. On it you speak about your reasons to take the course and do a short independent CAD exercise. The purpose of Advanced CAD is to choose a career driven specialty area and develop a professional level portfolio to use when applying for college, internships, and a job.
Advanced CAD allows you to have a specialized track to develop a portfolio that represents you perfectly. There will be multiple sections of the course offered that now offer more options than ever before. Please understand there are now two different versions of the class to register for, with one of them offering further pathway selection as explained below.
* In our 3D modeling course section you will specialize in a career path using Autodesk products of your choice based on the career path. You will use primarily Revit, Inventor, or Blender / 3DS Max. Supplementally you may use Fusion 360, Rhino, AutoCAD, FormIt, SketchUp, TinkerCAD or others that allow 3D modeling. Upon entering this section you will then choose a career path to study 3D modeling, which will lead to you using Revit, Inventor, or Blender / 3DS Max. Finishing tools such as 3D printers, laser engravers, and other hardware will be available to create physical models.
* We also have an Adobe Graphics course section in which you will use Photoshop, Illustrator, and supporting Adobe products to learn how to create graphics for print and digital publishing, covering all career paths that make use of these skills. The nature of this work will occur in two-dimensional design.  The Adobe 2D Graphics programs are Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, and other supporting products that focus on combining knowledge of vector and raster graphics and using them at a professional level for industry related goals and portfolio creation.
Unlike the first CAD class at SI Tech, in Advanced CAD there are very few demonstrations that come from the instructor's thoughts. This is due to the students working on their OWN INDEPENDENT TRACK of projects in one of the programs above. If the tracks do not fit the student, then they and the instructor can craft a new track that still uses one of the main CAD software experiences. During the course of the year students regularly conference with the instructor, who grades them based on progress that is positive and timely, based on their status during the previous conference. Grades are NOT from completed projects because projects will vary wildly in scale for each student. During project design, the students are required to maintain a LIVE design document that is shared with the instructor. This is where communication takes place in between conferences and notes are added during conferences. The contents of this LIVE document will evolve into being a narrative of the student's work complete with pictures and other media into an online portfolio where the students can speak to their design process with precision because of the documentation.
There is NO homework other than the students desires to research for their projects and prepare resources. There are no exams and no required certifications, however students are encouraged strongly to take more User level Certiport exams in their field (Revit, Inventor, Max) and urged to consider taking the Professional tier exam for a greatly reduced fee due to a special coupon our students are granted access to when they are active in Staten Island Tech. Exams in Adobe products and others will also be considered to be offered.
Make no mistake, this is an elective class meant for students to learn CAD to a degree typically deeper than that of a working professional. Expectations are high and history speaks loudly for those who take the course. An amazing career awaits your appetite for design. For more information contact Mr. Buro, Ms. Geraghty, or Ms. Barone in school or via email.
Below are more details about the areas of focus and associated CAD program built for the industry that is chosen. All students should have knowledge of AutoCAD usage and probably have experienced one or two others in regular CAD or Principles of Engineering. The 3D Design programs are Revit, Inventor Professional, and Blender/3DS Max. Below you can look at popular examples of those specialty areas. Green Architecture, Biomedical Engineering, and 3D Modeling in Media. Other examples include Mechanical Eng, Automotive Eng, Aerospace Eng, CGI Special Effects, or really any other career that has a CAD as a foundational tool. 
For more information you can also visit https://www.sitechcad.com/our-cad-classes.html for the latest information on CAD at Tech.
3D Modeling Version
The World Builder’s Sustainable Design Branch - Autodesk Revit with Enscape 3D
This branch will feature projects in designing and analyzing structures with the purpose of them being environmentally friendly.  Solar panels, geothermal wells, wind turbines, etc. are all aspects of this.  The structures will vary and include homes, public buildings, and building complexes.  BIM (Building Information Management) is a required piece of knowledge for a student going into studying this material.  Revit and some of its plugins will be used to design and analyze the structures. AutoCAD may be used to supplement, as well as others with approval. Some projects will be driven by public grant contests, scholarship pieces, etc.
Anyone interested in Architecture, Civil Engineering, or Structural Engineering would be choosing this branch of the class.  Combining Green Design techniques with those fields is required in modern times and anyone with experience in this design work will carry valuable portfolio pieces with them.  Sustainable design is a very lucrative area of this type of work because much of the current workforce is under-skilled in this field.
	The Engineer’s Modern Design and Problem Solving Branch -  Autodesk Inventor Professional
This branch will feature projects in design challenges associated with the student’s choice Engineering field. 
Choose from Aerospace (plane and space travel), Biomedical (prosthetic limbs, skull or other bone repair, surgical devices), Automotive (car, truck, train, motorcycle), Mechanical (gear boxes, machine parts, mechanisms for everyday use), Robotics (factory bots, AI human assistive bots), or any other field fits the mold of these. Real data will always be used in your designs with attention to real design challenges. 
Special note for those interested in Engineering but are fascinated by the medical field (or vice versa), this class will help you further your understanding of modern technology used for surgical or assistive purposes.  Building several portfolio pieces in this area of design will be valuable to your college application and scholarship process. One of our CAD instructors is alive today due to these advancements, ask about it! 
	The 3D Artist’s Modeling for Media with Animation Branch – Blender / Autodesk 3DS Max
This branch will feature projects in 3D modeling for video games, VR, television, and CGI movies.  The modeling will include characters, structures, and effects.  Rendered animation or interactive animation can also be a component of your design projects.  Examples include characters from games like Fallout, movies like Shrek, or animated TV shows like Star Wars Rebels. You will explore different modeling techniques in Blender or 3DS Max primarily.


This field of 3D modeling for media blends art and technology.  You may wish to explore other programs while in the course such as Maya or ZBrush.  I hope to also incorporate your skills learned in our TV Studio class and possibly do some green screen work.  
	

Graphic Arts Version
The Graphics Designer and Publisher’s Branch -  Adobe Creative Suite (note this is a separate class)
This advanced course is a full year and will focus on learning both Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, and supporting products.  Students will learn the difference between the raster and vector based programs throughout the year. 
Both Photoshop and Illustrator are industry standard imaging softwares that allow the user to create digital images, enhance existing artworks, repair damaged works, combine images, create layouts for books, create web pages, draw landscapes and much more.  The course will create a professional design and publishing environment for you to work in so you may have a career based experience with guidance on creating a portfolio that would be appealing to college majors associated with Graphic Design, as well as appealing to internships and paid work sites.
The curriculum will have a project based learning approach where students will be expected to create and design as they learn the building blocks of each software.  Each student will be expected to maintain a portfolio of work throughout the year as a way to document what they have learned.  While this course is designed to enhance the users skills in both programs, it will also allow them to open up and discover their own creativity.
	Work-Based Learning Internship (Grade 11, 12 | 2 terms) Elective - Application Required.  
The SITHS Career Development Center “CDC” has established multiple partnerships and funding sources to offer employment and paid or unpaid internship opportunities to hundreds of SITHS students.  This internship course is an elective class which can be taken multiple times throughout your high school career.  It is designed so that students can leave school early to accommodate the needs of the position.  The job must meet eligibility requirements. This “offsite” course will combine a number of in-class meetings with the hours worked in the internship to satisfy the course total requirements that all students must have.  
* The Work-Based Learning Internship course meets in school, usually once a week, during 9th period.  
* The rest of the week, you will have period 9 free to work your Work-Based Learning/Internship opportunity. 
* If you register for this course, you are expected to secure an internship or experience that is in alignment with NYC Department of Education regulations and NYS Labor Laws.  The specifics of this will be elaborated in the class.
* Both paid and unpaid experiences can be eligible. 
   * Paid experiences can originate with SITHS CDC funding sources, or with external businesses or programs that fund your position, such as through our school’s partnership with DYCD and Grant Associates.  
   * Unpaid experiences, such as certain special programs like ACE Mentorship, can be eligible. 
* All work-based learning experiences must be approved by the Work Based Learning Coordinator and the Career Development Center. 
The in-class portion of the course will instruct and challenge students on refining their professional skills and prepare them to work with SITHS business partners and local businesses throughout New York City.  This course will support students as they understand the resources needed for finding a job, explore career paths that align with their interests and strengths, and support them with professional development while working in an internship. 
Students who are interested in the architecture/engineering fields have a higher percentage opportunity of obtaining a paid internship (sponsored by the SITHS CDC) with Designer’s Edge, a nationally recognized architecture survey firm.  Students who are interested in the A/V engineering field also have a higher percentage opportunity to work with Gotham Trinity Productions, a film and media production company. 
Students who have questions about this unique course option should come to the SITHS Career Development Center in room 229 for further information. 
College Now: Introduction to Film (Grade 11, 12 - 1 Term) 


This course is offered through the College Now program at the College of Staten Island (CSI) and occurs once a week, after the school day. Intro to Film is an introduction to the terms and methods of film analysis. Students will learn to "read" a movie by learning how to speak the language of film. Each week, a film will be viewed in class in order to illustrate a different topic, including cinematography, editing, sound, narrative design, genre, and ideology.  Tuition is free and students will earn college credit at CSI upon successful completion of the course.
________________




Mathematics
	

All students take 4 years of Mathematics, including Algebra I, Geometry, Algebra II and AP Precalculus. 
* All 12th graders take Multivariable Calculus, AP Calculus BC, AP Calculus AB, AP Statistics or Non-AP Calculus.


Mathematics Courses
Algebra I (Grade 9)
Geometry (Grade 9/10)
Algebra II (Grade 10/11)
AP PreCalculus (Grade 11/12)
AP Calculus AB (Grade 11/12)
AP Calculus BC (Grade 11/12)
AP Statistics (Grade 12)
Multivariable Calculus (Grade 12)
Math Team (Grade 9-12)


Mathematics Faculty
* Matthew Amoroso
* Lisa Asher 
* James Aurelia 
* Kevin Chester 
* Heidi Chu
* Peter Dellegrazie 
* Christina Franks
* Kaitlyn Lang 
* Stephanie Partnow
* Michael Siozios 
* Lisa Wellens  


Mathematics Course Descriptions
Algebra I (Common Core: Grade 9) - Algebra I is the first course offered in high school Mathematics. It is the responsibility of any incoming students to confirm that their middle school properly documented both taking Algebra I and the Regents Exam on their official transcript before the start of the school year. Students lacking the documentation, or those that did not take Algebra I in 8th grade will automatically be programmed for Algebra I. Algebra I provides tools and ways of thinking that are necessary for solving problems in a wide variety of disciplines, such as science, business, social sciences, fine arts, and technology. This course will assist students in developing skills and processes to be applied using a variety of techniques to successfully solve problems in a variety of settings. Problem situations may result in all types of linear equations in one variable, quadratic functions, exponential functions and operations using polynomials. Problem situations resulting in systems of equations will also be presented. Measurement within a problem-solving context will include calculating rates using appropriate units and converting within measurement systems. Data analysis including measures of central tendency and visual representations of data, in addition to an understanding of correlation and causation and regression equations will be explored. Students will solve problem situations requiring right triangle trigonometry. Students will sit for a NYS Regents Examination at the end of this course. 
Geometry (Common Core: Grade 9/10) - Geometry is intended to be the second course in mathematics for high school students. Within this course, students will have the opportunity to make conjectures about geometric situations and prove in a variety of ways, both formal and informal, that their conclusion follows logically from their hypothesis. This course is meant to employ an integrated approach to the study of geometric relationships. Integrating synthetic, transformational, and coordinate approaches to geometry, students will justify geometric relationships and properties of geometric figures.  Congruence and similarity of triangles will be established using  appropriate theorems. Transformations including rotations, reflections, translations, and glide reflections and coordinate geometry will be used to establish and verify geometric relationships. A major emphasis of this course is to allow students to investigate geometric situations. Properties of triangles, quadrilaterals, and circles should receive particular attention. It is intended that students will use the traditional tools of compass and straightedge as well as dynamic geometry software that models these tools more efficiently and accurately, to assist in these investigations. Geometry is meant to lead students to an understanding that reasoning and proof are  fundamental aspects of mathematics and something that sets it apart from the other sciences. Students will sit for a NYS Regents Examination at the end of this course.
Algebra II (Common Core: Grade 10/11) - Algebra II is the capstone in the three units of credit required for a Regents diploma. This course is a continuation and extension of the two courses that preceded it. This course is intended to continue developing alternative solution strategies and algorithms. For example, technology can provide to many students the means to address a problem situation to which they might not otherwise have access. Within this course, the number system will be extended to include imaginary and complex numbers. The families of functions to be studied will include polynomial, absolute value, radical, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions. Problems resulting in systems of equations will be solved graphically and algebraically including 3 variable systems. Algebraic techniques will be developed to facilitate rewriting mathematical expressions into multiple equivalent forms. Data analysis will be extended to include measures of dispersion and the analysis of regression that models functions are studied throughout this course. Arithmetic and geometric sequences will be expressed in multiple forms, and arithmetic and geometric series will be evaluated. Right triangle trigonometry will be expanded to include the investigation of circular functions and analysis of all trigonometric graphs. Students will sit for a NYS Regents Examination at the end of this course.
AP PreCalculus (Grade 11/12) - The AP Precalculus Course is designed to better prepare our students for Advanced Placement Calculus courses.  The core curriculum for the AP Exam includes the analysis of polynomial, rational, exponential, logarithmic, trigonometric and polar functions. We have enhanced the AP Precalculus course with additional and extended topics including parametric functions, conic sections, vectors, and matrices. These additional topics include proofs and justifications for selected methods, further examples of applications, extensions of some methods to cover more cases, explanations of the connections between various topics, and alternative methods of problem solving. Lastly students begin to learn topics with an emphasis on building the reasoning skills for calculus, including evaluating limits, differentiation, area under a curve and partial fraction decomposition.  At the end of the course it is expected that the student takes and passes the respective Advanced Placement examination.
Senior Calculus (Grade 11/12) - The goal of this class is to give students who did not qualify to take the Advanced Placement Calculus Course, a "taste" of Calculus.  The course will better prepare students for Calculus 1 and 2 in college.  The class follows the same outline as AP Calculus AB, but it moves at a slower pace.
Course Objectives
* Students should be able to work with functions represented in a variety of ways: graphical, numerical, analytic, or verbal. They should understand the connections among these representations.
* Students should understand the meaning of the derivative in terms of a rate of change and local linear approximation, and should be able to use derivatives to solve a variety of problems. 
* Students should understand the meaning of the definite integral both as a limit of Riemann sums and as the net accumulation of change, and should be able to use integrals to solve a variety of problems. 
* Students should understand the relationship between the derivative and the definite integral as expressed in both parts of the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus. 
* Students should be able to communicate mathematics and explain solutions to problems both verbally and in written sentences. 
* Students should be able to model a written description of a physical situation with a function, a differential equation, or an integral. 
* Students should be able to use technology to help solve problems, experiment, interpret results, and support conclusions. 
* Students should be able to determine the reasonableness of solutions, including sign, size, relative accuracy, and units of measurement. 
* Students should develop an appreciation of calculus.
AP Calculus AB (Grade 11/12) - AP Calculus AB is roughly equivalent to a first semester college calculus (Calc I) course devoted to topics in differential and integral calculus. The AP course covers topics in these areas, including concepts and skills of limits, derivatives, definite integrals, and the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus. The course teaches students to approach calculus concepts and problems when they are represented graphically, numerically, analytically, and verbally, and to make connections amongst these representations. Students learn how to use technology to help solve problems, experiment, interpret results, and support conclusions. At the end of the course it is expected that the student takes and passes the respective Advanced Placement examination.
Course Objectives
* Students should be able to work with functions represented in a variety of ways: graphical, numerical, analytic, or verbal. They should understand the connections among these representations.
* Students should understand the meaning of the derivative in terms of a rate of change and local linear approximation, and should be able to use derivatives to solve a variety of problems. 
* Students should understand the meaning of the definite integral both as a limit of Riemann sums and as the net accumulation of change, and should be able to use integrals to solve a variety of problems. 
* Students should understand the relationship between the derivative and the definite integral as expressed in both parts of the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus. 
* Students should be able to communicate mathematics and explain solutions to problems both verbally and in written sentences. 
* Students should be able to model a written description of a physical situation with a function, a differential equation, or an integral. 
* Students should be able to use technology to help solve problems, experiment, interpret results, and support conclusions. 
* Students should be able to determine the reasonableness of solutions, including sign, size, relative accuracy, and units of measurement. 
* Students should develop an appreciation of calculus.
AP Calculus BC (Grade 11/12) - AP Calculus BC is roughly equivalent to both first and second semester college calculus courses (Calc I and II) and extends the content learned in AB to different types of equations and introduces the topic of sequences and series. This course covers topics in differential and integral calculus, including concepts and skills of limits, derivatives, definite integrals, the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus, and series. You will learn how to approach calculus concepts and problems when they are represented graphically, numerically, analytically, and verbally, and to make connections amongst these representations. You will also learn how to use technology to help solve problems, experiment, interpret results, and support conclusions. At the end of the course it is expected that the student takes and passes the respective Advanced Placement examination.
Course Objectives
* Students should be able to work with functions represented in a variety of ways: graphical, numerical, analytic, or verbal. They should understand the connections among these representations.
* Students should understand the meaning of the derivative in terms of a rate of change and local linear approximation, and should be able to use derivatives to solve a variety of problems. 
* Students should understand the meaning of the definite integral both as a limit of Riemann sums and as the net accumulation of change, and should be able to use integrals to solve a variety of problems. 
* Students should understand the relationship between the derivative and the definite integral as expressed in both parts of the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus. 
* Students should be able to communicate mathematics and explain solutions to problems both verbally and in written sentences. 
* Students should be able to model a written description of a physical situation with a function, a differential equation, or an integral. 
* Students should be able to use technology to help solve problems, experiment, interpret results, and support conclusions. 
* Students should be able to determine the reasonableness of solutions, including sign, size, relative accuracy, and units of measurement. 
* Students should develop an appreciation of calculus.
AP Statistics (Grade 12)- The AP Statistics course introduces students to the major concepts and tools for collecting, analyzing, and drawing conclusions from data. There are four themes evident in the content, skills, and assessment in the AP Statistics course: exploring data, sampling and experimentation, probability and simulation, and statistical inference. Students use technology, investigations, problem solving, and writing as they build conceptual understanding. The AP Statistics course is equivalent to a one-semester, introductory, non-calculus-based college course in statistics.  At the end of the course it is expected that the student takes and passes the respective Advanced Placement examination.
Multivariable Calculus (Grade 12) - In this course, students will extend what was learned in Advanced Placement Calculus BC and learn about the subtleties, applications, and beauty of limits, continuity, differentiation, and integration in higher dimensions. This course covers vector and multivariable calculus. Topics include vectors in Euclidean space, vector analysis, analytic geometry of three dimensions, curves in space, partial derivatives, optimization techniques, multiple integrals, line integrals and surface integrals, vector fields, Green’s theorem, Divergence theorem and Stokes’ theorem.
Math Team (Grade 9-12) - The Math Team is a place where all students who enjoy math come together. Students discuss and learn various areas of math, from elementary to very advanced, college level mathematics. Every meeting is filled with rich topics for discussion in various areas of mathematics. Topics will range from history, philosophy, and math education to the discussion and study of particular areas of math. Students problem solve for both remedial and advanced areas of mathematics. Problem solving sessions can range from subjects like high school algebra and geometry to college level courses such as calculus, statistics, analysis, abstract algebra, and much more. Some of the subjects covered in the Math Team are: Abstract Algebra, Real Analysis, Complex Analysis, Number Theory, Topology, Combinatorics, Probability, Linear Algebra, Differential Equations, Advanced Euclidean Geometry, Mathematics Education. The Math Team is also a great opportunity to meet other fellow math enthusiasts, and to make friends, to socialize and to have fun. Math Team is an elective course and meets 4-5 times a week during the school day. The Team participates in New York City Interscholastic Math League(NYCIML), the New York Mathematics League(NYML), American Mathematics Competitions (AMC 10/12), Purple Comet and TrinMac.  The school also competes in the Downtown Mathematics Invitational at Stuyvesant HS, South Brooklyn Invitational Mathematics Competition at FDR HS and the Staten Island Mathematics Competition at SITHS.  We also organize and run District 31’s Elementary and Middle School Math Competitions.






































________________




English
	

Students learn to appreciate all aspects of Literature and the elements of higher level writing for the real-world.  Fiction and Non-Fiction works are studied and aligned with the Social Studies curriculum scope and sequence, along the historical periods in which students are exploring. All students have annual lessons in literacy skills and seleton with support through the SI Tech HS Library.  All courses have a strong focus on Project-Based and/or Presentation-Based Assessments for better Understanding, Oracy and Engagement.
* All 9th graders take a one-term Intensive Writing Program, focusing on English Rhetoric and Communication skills that transcend the classroom and become effective, practical and required tools in the real-world.
* All 11th and 12th graders have access to AP*, Dual-Enrollment** and College Level English courses and electives.
English Courses
English 1 & 2 (Common Core: Grade 9)
English 3 & 4 (Common Core: Grade 10)
English 5 & 6 (Common Core: Grade 11)
       AP English Language & Composition (Grade 11)
       AP English Literature & Composition (Grade 12)
Modern Mythology: Gods & Monsters*(Grade 12)
Creative Writing* (Grade 12)
Publications (Grade 12)
Public Speaking (Grade 12) 
                                                 *Denotes college credits available


English Faculty
* Jody Cavaliere 
* Diane Federico
* Joseph Frazzetto 
* Kristen Fusaro 
* Abigail Lanza
* Amanda Lane 
* David Luu
* Dorothy Mannino 
* Yevgenya Michan 
* Patrick Misciagna 
* Jessica Peterson
* Noelle Sanguinedo 
* Thomas Terrusa 
* Paul Wiley


English Core Curriculum & Course Overview:
English 1 & 2 (Grade 9)- 
All 9th graders take a one-term Intensive Writing Program, focusing on English Rhetoric and Communication skills that transcend the classroom and become effective, practical and required tools in the real-world, the alternate term compliments the Writing Program with Literature and Language Arts skills to build readers and craft writers using multiple genres including but not limited to Shakespearean literature, Greek Mythology, graphic novels .

The initial steps examine the ancient meaning of journey. Students will read literature that spans Greek and Roman history, from mythical monsters to modern science fiction, interpreting and defining the archetype of the hero and the hero’s journey.  As students consider the plight of ordinary and epic characters, they will respond to their trials, their tests, and their human and heroic qualities incorporating the lessons taught to us into their own trials and tests of the adventure called high school. This course is designed to help students improve skills in critical reading and critical thinking. The course will also focus on the craft of composition and skills required for the SAT examination, the English Common Core Regents and writing products that meet the ELA Common Core State Standards.


English 3 & 4 (Grade 10) - 
 In Sophomore year of English, students are challenged to deepen their writing voice and use critical reading as intellectual inquiry. Students explore Rebellion Literature using various themes, literary structures, and writing techniques to develop skills in narration, persuasion, argument, and reflection. Through the critical analysis of numerous literary works, students receive a model for various modes of writing, as well as critical, thoughtful, analytical questioning, preparing them for the deeper study of rhetorical structures in the Junior year.
The fiction of the Sophomore year presents the idea that the world can be a dark place--a treacherous, dehumanizing, lawless and unjust place where dystopia prevails, civilization crumbles, apathy reigns and evil exists for its own sake. Fortunately, we are also presented with remarkable protagonists--our rebels with a cause--for whom comfort isn’t an option if it means living a life void of passion and truth. As each student continues on their journey through high school, it is SITHS’s hope that students will see their own struggles and victories reflected in these protagonists, and that students will always recognize the light of courage, morality and humanity, even in the confines of a dark world.
 
In Sophomore year of English at Staten Island Technical High School, students are challenged to deepen their writing voice and use critical reading as intellectual inquiry. Students explore various themes, literary structures, and writing techniques to develop skills in narration, persuasion, argument, and reflection. Through the critical analysis of numerous literary works, students receive a model for various modes of writing, as well as critical, thoughtful, analytical questioning, preparing them for the deeper study of rhetorical structures in the Junior year.


English 5 & 6 (Grade 11)- 
In Junior year, students follow the American journey through works of literature that reflect our history. Students track the paranoia of the Puritans, the wisdom of the founding fathers, and the beauty of the transcendentalists. Students read classic and contemporary texts that challenge and celebrate American virtues of liberty, justice and happiness. Along the way, students consider their own identity and notions of what it means to be an American. The course is designed to help students improve skills in critical reading and critical thinking. There is also a focus on the craft of composition and skills required for the SAT examination, the English Common Core Regents and writing products that meet the ELA Common Core State Standards.


Ever since settlers first landed on these shores, the American story has been a tug of war between individualism and communalism, dependence and independence, money and morality. In junior year, students will follow the American journey through works of literature that reflect our history. Students will contemplate the beliefs of the Puritan Society, the goals of the founding fathers, and the philosophy of the transcendentalists. They will read classic and contemporary texts that challenge and celebrate American virtues of liberty, justice and happiness.
Along the way, students will consider their own identity and notions of what it means to be an American. This course is designed to help students improve skills in critical reading and critical thinking. The course will also focus on the craft of composition and skills required for the SAT examination, the English Common Core Regents and writing products that meet the ELA Common Core State Standards.




AP English Language & Composition (Grade 11) -The Advanced Placement Language and Composition class is a full year section that will take a detailed look at the art of writing and rhetoric.  Through both fictional and non-fictional works students will gain a deeper understanding of HOW a work is constructed in order to shape the author’s meaning and purpose through style, strategy, and technique.  Students will be exposed to a challenging list of essays, speeches, fictional and non-fictional prose.  In addition, sporadic AP questioning and peer review will help to develop confidence and sharpen skills for the Language and Composition Exam.  Although students will be exposed to the American Literature curriculum for high school junior, this class will not follow the patterns and timelines of other non-AP courses. 
As always, and in keeping with the College Board, AP Course Description, the goal of this class will be to help students “write effectively and confidently in their college courses across the curriculum and in their professional and personal lives” (2005 – 2006 Workshop Materials 49).  Students will be expected to respond to various texts in writing concerning theme, as well as purpose and rhetorical mode.  In addition, each student will prepare analytical essays in which they synthesize materials reviewed and course information gained from lecture and class discussion.  Critical reading skills along with the processes of synthesis, research, writing, and revision will be emphasized.
At the end of the course, it is expected that the student takes and passes the respective Advanced Placement examination.
Overview Grade 12 (see selections): – In How to Read Literature Like a Professor, Dr. Thomas C. Foster tells us, “Every trip is a quest about self-discovery.” Since embarking on their journey through Staten Island Tech, students have shared in the quests of Odysseus, Winston Smith, Macbeth, Frederick Douglass, Jay Gatsby among others. They were with them as they rose; shared their pain as they fell. Senior year is about a student’s personal journey - about understanding why the student empathized with those characters who grappled with their being. Students will read captivating classics and modern marvels to discover a true sense of self. Students will question their world, their culture, their history to begin answering the most gripping question and powerful journey of all - Who am I?  Therefore, senior year allows students to Choose from the Selectives below.


AP English Literature & Composition (Grade 12) - Advanced Placement Literature and Composition is a class of close and deep reading, with a strong focus on the tools and application of author’s craft. A central and recurring question drives nearly all aspects of class analysis and discussion, of writing tasks small and formal: How and why does (author’s name) use of (literary device and/or technique) contribute to the meaning of the literary work?
 
Its satisfactory response requires students to strengthen their ability to recognize, understand and articulate (through inevitably eloquent writing) how and why an author uses specific tools, and to what effect. This skill is attained through the guided close reading and analysis of poetry, prose and drama from various time periods. Students will learn to recognize the role of subtext, structure, literary elements, and the social dynamics of the time on the meaning and message of a given work of fiction-- that is, the large and timeless truths of humanity. Advanced Placement Literature and Composition students emerge from the course as sharp writers with a thoughtful, insightful and instinctive ability to evaluate fiction --an invaluable tool that is applicable to all areas of study.  At the end of the course, it is expected that the student takes and passes the respective Advanced Placement examination.




*Modern Mythology: Gods, Monsters & the Apocalypse* (Grade 12) - In a world plagued by wrathful gods, hideous monsters, and destructive otherworldly forces, will humankind transcend above the challenges it faces, or will humanity rear its villainous head and turn against itself? This course addresses the foundations of world mythology, monsters, dystopia, and its effects on Western civilization, and how those effects have evolved and mutated into humankind’s greatest fear – ourselves.


Essential Questions
1. What constitutes human dignity?
2. How is man torn between the desire for solitude or solidarity?
3. How does our creation determine our destiny?
4. Is it possible to do great good with power, without misusing that power?
5. What is true of humanity and pride?
Disclaimer:  Some of the subject matter, which relates to Gods, Monsters, and the Apocalypse, is inherently controversial, such as the sexualized notion of monsters; however, all of these issues will be discussed and displayed with the utmost respect and prudence necessary for public school.
Please note: This college sophomore level course is heavily focused on collaborative work and independent initiative. Using a portfolio-based assessment approach, students will keep up with the workload by managing deadlines and being prepared to work with teammates on large-scale projects. Expectations for personal responsibility are high because by the end of the course, students will produce stunning digital portfolios, projects, and blogs which are globally shared. 


* Creative Writing* (Grade 12) - In this college-level class, students will learn how to use writing to express creativity in terms of their ideas, identities, experiences, and most importantly, how they wish to express themselves. Through reading, writing, and discussion, students will develop their understanding of how authors choose to world-build, create interesting/entertaining plots, and expand on characters to make them relatable to the audience. This inspiration will allow students to write about various topics using different styles of prose and use their imagination to create pieces that will impact their peers. 


Enduring Understandingmeans that like life, writing is filled with choices. Whether Authors’ decide to write an ending that will satisfy the average reader, or add unconventional forms of punctuation and dialogue that will defy the odds, these decisions are very similar to the ones people must make while writing the story of their life. As we learn to reflect and write about our experiences, writers must be able to make choices about how to structure their writing based on its intended purpose and intended audience.


Publications (Grade 12) -Publications: In this course, students will gain skills in one or more of the following areas: page design, advanced publishing techniques, copywriting, editing and photography, caption writing and more! This course is deadline driven but also allows for the creative freedom you may be looking for during your senior year. It is a different class experience that relies heavily on completing personal/team projects (such as a podcast, running the Student Life social media account, event scrapbook, or the publication of the Yearbook, etc.). There is also an extracurricular component to the class because you can focus on being a publications photographer to fulfill your assignments. Participants gain useful, real-world skills in time management, marketing, teamwork, and design principles.








Dramatic Literature  (Grade 12): Dramatic literature has existed across centuries and cultures and is arguably the foundation for most of what we view today as “entertainment.” Whether Shakespeare,  David Henry Hwang, August Wilson, Tennessee Williams,  Rodgers & Hammerstein,  or Lin-Manuel Miranda, plays deal with the human condition and how individuals and groups have struggled, failed, and triumphed.  


 In this course, we will read, analyze, discuss, and write about plays from a number of perspectives.  When we consider historical and social context, characterization, motivation, tension, and theatrical craft, we can appreciate a play’s impact on its audience, readers, and time period.  In this course, we will survey a variety of plays and try to understand their importance, impact, and influence on society.  We will look at pieces that might include a Greek piece such as Oedipus Rex, a Shakespearean selection, as well as pieces from contemporary playwrights.  In addition, we will examine and explore the importance of the American musical, which some argue is our country’s most important and meaningful contribution to the theatrical art form. 


Please note: Although plays will be at the center of what we do in this class, this is not an acting class but a literature class that focuses on the genre of dramatic literature.
Public Speaking (Grade 12) - This course prepares students for a variety of academic, social, and professional situations in which formal presentations are required in addition to traditional writing skills. Topics will include theories and practices about speech communication, verbal and nonverbal messages, and techniques of oral presentation and persuasion. Students will learn research, outline, and delivery skills for presentations using powerpoint, prezi, and stand-alone speech. The public speaking class is designed to provide opportunities for students to develop and strengthen their skills in preparing and presenting oral presentations in a variety of situations.  Although some students might find the emphasis on performance frightening or frustrating, the rewards for acquiring public speaking skills are many. Through feedback, support, and guidance, students will gain insight into the tactics that will help them become more effective speakers.




*Denotes college credits available with payment.
________________




Social Studies
	

A participatory democracy requires the experience of history, the study of social science, and an appreciation of social studies.  At SITHS, this vital knowledge is explored in a challenging college level curriculum encompassing historical topics of World History and United States History, Government, Economics and Behavioral Social Science such as Sociology.  
* All 9th and 10th grade students take Advanced Placement World History over a period of two years.  This course terminates at the end of the 10th grade in a New York State Regent Exam and Advanced Placement Test which can lead to the equivalency of two college classes worth of credit (6 credits).  
* All 11th grade students take AP United States History. This course terminates in a New York State Regent Exam and Advanced Placement Test which can lead to the equivalency of two college classes worth of credit (6 credits).                                                                                                  Students can choose to take one of the following options:
1. AP US History Survey.
2. AP US History through Film, Art, and Music.
* In the 12th grade, students begin to study the governmental structures of the United States as well as economic markets and personal finance, with options to be taken at the Advanced Placement level.  Students can choose to take one of the following options:
3. Participation in Government and Economics of Personal Finance - These are non AP Courses.
4. AP Macroeconomics embedded with US Government.  The AP Macroeconomics culminates in an AP exam and can lead to the equivalency of one college class worth of credit (3 credits).
5. AP US Government embedded with economics.  The AP US Government class culminates in an AP exam and can lead to the equivalency of one college class worth of credit (3 credits).    
College Now Course in Social Science: In either the 11th and 12th grade, students can enroll in an elective College Now course in Behavioral Social Science with an emphasis in Sociology.  As part of a collaboration with the City University of New York’s Kingsborough Community College, this course carries the equivalency of one college course in CUNY (3 credits).  Both a zero period and evening version of the course is available.


History Courses
AP World History 1 & 2 (Grade 9)
AP World History A 3 & 4 (Grade 10)
AP US Survey (Grade 11)
AP US through Film, Art, and Music (Grade 11)
         AP US Government & Politics (Grade 12)
Participation In Government (Grade 12)
Economics (Grade 12)
AP Macroeconomics (Grade 12)
Behavioral & Social Science Class (emphasis in Sociology) (Grade 11 / 12)


Social Studies Faculty School_Seal_HISTORY_CLR.png 
Joseph Manzo, Assistant Principal
* Victoria Finkelshteyn 
* Meredith Manfredi 
* Nicholas Macula 
* Jeff Morra
* Jessica Pagliaro
* Kathy Palma
* Suzanne Provenzano 
* Austen Rerick
* Lauren Zerega




History Course Descriptions
9th grade
AP World History - AP World History is designed to be the equivalent of a two-semester introductory college or university world history course. In AP World History students investigate significant events, individuals, developments, and processes in six historical periods from approximately 8000 B.C.E. to the present. Students develop and use the same skills, practices, and methods employed by historians: analyzing primary and secondary sources; developing historical arguments; making historical comparisons; and utilizing reasoning about contextualization, causation, and continuity and change over time. The course provides five themes that students explore throughout the course in order to make connections among historical developments in different times and places: interaction between humans and the environment; development and interaction of cultures; state building, expansion, and conflict; creation, expansion, and interaction of economic systems; and development and transformation of social structures.
* https://apstudent.collegeboard.org/apcourse/ap-world-history 
* https://secure-media.collegeboard.org/digitalServices/pdf/ap/ap-course-overviews/ap-world-history-course-overview.pdf
* https://secure-media.collegeboard.org/digitalServices/pdf/ap/ap-world-history-course-and-exam-description.pdf 
10th grade
10th grade students take AP World History. At the end of the course it is expected that the student takes and passes the respective Advanced Placement examination.
AP World History -
* https://apstudent.collegeboard.org/apcourse/ap-world-history 
* https://secure-media.collegeboard.org/digitalServices/pdf/ap/ap-course-overviews/ap-world-history-course-overview.pdf
* https://secure-media.collegeboard.org/digitalServices/pdf/ap/ap-world-history-course-and-exam-description.pdf 
11th grade
11th grade students can choose between two versions of AP United States History
Option 1: AP US Survey
In AP U.S. History, students investigate significant events, individuals, developments, and processes from approximately 1491 to the present. Students develop and use the same skills and methods employed by historians: analyzing primary and secondary sources; developing historical arguments; making historical connections; and utilizing reasoning about comparison, causation, and continuity and change. The course also provides eight themes that students explore throughout the course in order to make connections among historical developments in different times and places: American and national identity; work, exchange, and technology; geography and the environment; migration and settlement; politics and power; America in the world; American and regional culture; and social structures.
Time in class will be devoted to testing preparation for the two mandatory culminating exams.
Nightly homework and standardized test-style exams will be used alongside project and engagement-based assessments.  
From the College Board: https://apstudent.collegeboard.org/apcourse/ap-united-states-history?ushist 


Option 2: AP US History through Film, Art, and Music: 
Students will learn the story of the United States and her cultural development through the mediums of film, artwork, and music. Student discussions will focus on how these various forms can serve various purposes - as a Factual Record, to Convey Atmosphere, as an Analogy, and as a lesson in Historiography. Because the dramatic form used in art requires consistent and relatively simple motivational interpretations, students can often learn how the time period in which the film was made interpreted historical personalities and events. Culturally responsive selections will expand students’ understanding of their own culture as well as the many cultures in the story of the United States. Each foundational piece of artwork for a particular unit will comprise three levels of investigation and analysis. The first level will be researching the contextualization of the art: When was it created, what period is it meant to reflect, and how is the creator’s own experiences reflected in the product. Such analysis is similar to the HIPP analysis done by history students in Staten Island Tech in the AP World course from 9th and 10th grade. The second level will be viewing/listening to the source material, requiring engaging class discussion and debate on the messages, emotions, and stories conveyed through the art. The third and final level will be a synthesis and demonstration of learning, where students will combine their research with their experience with the source and complete either film reviews, research papers, debates, or other projects that demonstrate student mastery of skills woven throughout the course.
Important considerations:  In the New US Course, US History through Film, Art, and Music, students must be eager to take this course based on the subject content and artistic lens, not for test prep or a full preparation for the AP exam or Regent Exam.  While students will learn and use skills and content needed for the AP exam in the class, this course may be more ideal for students who passed the regent exam already since test prep will not be a focus in class. Students MUST UNDERSTAND that they will still be taking the AP exam and NY Regent Exam (if not passed prior).  The course content will cover the entire time period of US History, however there will be deeper exploration of particular themes and topics at the expense of covering the full breadth of the usual US History course.  
While nightly homework will be most likely be minimal, long-term projects, thematic assignments, and research papers, as well as vigorous participation-based assessments (ie: debates, etc) will be the method of assessment. Packets and resources to prepare students for the AP exam will be provided, but students will take responsibility to do the assigned test prep materials asynchronously. A student who is good at independent scheduling and has a self-motivated work ethic is ideal for this course.  
12th grade


Choice one: AP Macroeconomics: https://apstudent.collegeboard.org/apcourse/ap-macroeconomics Macroeconomics studies the business cycle, national income, productivity, employment, trade, price levels, growth, and stabilization policies as parts of an interactive economic arrangement. Students study models that describe how a market economy works as a system. Macroeconomics has considerable value in helping make effective decisions about educational and career choices, personal finance, and the economic implications of government policies.


Goals and Objectives: The goal is to learn the vocabulary, concepts and graphical models of the principles of macroeconomics. The main objective is to master the conceptual and graphical skills within each of the five instructional units. This involves applying concepts acquired in lectures and readings to problems of macroeconomic description, translation, interpretation, and analysis.
Choice two: AP US Government & Politics: https://apstudent.collegeboard.org/apcourse/ap-united-states-government-and-politics 
Choice three: Participation In Government and Economics (non AP)  Term 1 of American Government & Economics explores the structure, dynamics and processes of the American system of government, providing a comprehensive introduction to the origins and development of ideas and institutions that influence the contemporary political milieu. The course examines the development and composition of the Declaration of Independence, the United States Constitution, the three branches of government, political parties, and interest groups within the framework of the historical, economic and social context.  Term 2 of this course explores 95% personal finance and a broad overview of the fundamental economic question of the behavior of consumers, firms, and markets under the constrictions of scarcity. Topics covered weigh heavily on personal finance and making healthy financial choices.  Some topics also covered include supply and demand analysis, determination of market prices, profit maximizing output, distribution of income, Gross Domestic Product, and fiscal and monetary policy. 


11th or 12th grade elective


Behavioral and Social Science Class with an emphasis on Sociology - Behavioral Social Science is a survey course.  The course is unlike any course that is offered at the high school level.  It is a Social Science Course, which focuses on sociology and other social sciences. In this course, we analyze topics in social science in an interesting way, unlike a standard high school course. This course is the most popular one in the College Now program.  It traditionally carries the largest enrollment and generally has very positive student feedback.  Once students take a college level social science course, they start to examine the world around them in a different and more vivid way!


This introductory course,  looks at a variety of topics in ways students may not have studied them before.  The structure of the course is that of a college seminar.  Discussions, presentations, critiques, analysis of academic journals, current events, documentary film and pop culture will enforce students’ understanding established by the framework of a college text that focuses on sociology in the global community.  Students are encouraged to think about the world they're living in using a sociological imagination.  There will be a strong coverage of race and ethnicity, examples of sociology's real-world applications, and in-depth coverage of currently relevant topics like mass media and social policy.


The following is an outline of the major topics that will be discussed through the semester:
* Names: How are we affected by our name?  Why was our name chosen?  How do names represent our social grouping and possibly determine how we behave or are perceived?
* Methods of studying social science including ethical decisions and the social scientific method.
* Ethnocentrism. 
* Socialization: How do families, friends, teachers, peers, the media influence adolescent development?
* Subculture: Conformity and deviance
* Issues of equality, liberty, and democracy.  What is freedom and equality?
* Oppression.
* Heredity vs. Environment, Nature vs. Nurture.  Why are things beautiful and ugly?  How is attraction and behavior affected by these theories? 
* Population density.
________________




World Language - Russian
	

Russian is the exclusive language taught at Staten Island Technical High School, from the school’s inception during the mid 1980’s at the end of the Cold War.  
* Staten Island Technical H.S. has one of the largest secondary Russian language programs in the nation, with 50% of graduates taking NEWL Exam for College Credit.


Russian Courses


Russian Language: Beginner / Heritage (Grade 9)
Russian Language: (Grade 10)
Russian Language: Accelerated (Grade 10)
Russian Language: Advanced Heritage (Grade 10)
Russian Language (Grade 11)
College Level Russian Accelerated (Grade 11/12)
College Level Russian Advanced Heritage (Grade 11)
Russian for Business (Grade 12) 




Foreign Language: Russian Faculty


* John Callahan 
* Olga Goyco 
* Natalya Levina 
* Veronika Maslyukova 
* Kateryna Ratushnyuk 
* Elena Sokolovski 
* Nataliya Ushakova


Russian Course Descriptions
At Staten Island Technical High School, Russian Language is the premiere language of instruction since the school’s inception in 1988.  Students are able to learn the language based on their ability in a streamlined process that is consistently working for the betterment of the student.
Ninth Grade
Russian Language: Heritage / Non-Heritage (Grade 9) - Until the fall of 2018, ninth grade students were placed in homogeneous groups consisting of both heritage and non-heritage speakers, respectively, based upon an entrance interview, and short written evaluation. Students are now grouped heterogeneously for the Spring term of ninth grade, with a strong focus on grammatical skills, reading comprehension, and writing, and assessed periodically using the Can Do Statements & World-Readiness Standards for Learning Languages to determine language levels.  
Tenth Grade & Eleventh Grade
Russian Language: Accelerated (Grade 10/11) / Russian Language: Advanced Heritage (Grade 10) / Russian Language (Grade 10/11) - After completing their ninth grade curriculum, a short background survey, a leveled assessment based on the World-Readiness Standards for Learning Languages, and NCSSFL-ACTFL Can-Do Statements as Self-Assessments, students will be divided into classes on the sophomore level. 
1. All heritage speakers who qualify as intermediate-mid and above will be grouped homogeneously in their sophomore year and beyond.  These students will take a condensed curriculum and the World Languages exam AND the Advanced Placement/NEWL (College Board) Russian at the end of their eleventh grade year.
2. All non-heritage speakers who qualify as intermediate-low and above will be grouped homogeneously in their sophomore year and beyond.  These students will take a condensed curriculum and the World Languages exam AND the Advanced Placement/NEWL (College Board) Russian at the end of their eleventh grade year.
3. All other students will stay on course for Russian language study, completing the Russian language study on pace for sophomore year, with the World Languages exam as the culmination of the junior year. ** It should be noted that some students choose to stay in a non-advanced track even if they qualify for other tracks due to programming limitations with other advanced courses.**
Eleventh Grade & Twelfth Grade
College Russian (Grade 11) culminates in the NEWL (National Examination in World Languages) exam. NEWL has been developed in collaboration with the American Councils for International Education. The National Examinations in World Languages or NEWL® is an online proficiency-based language assessment offered in several critical languages. The exam is designed to provide a set of measures of functional proficiency in the target language for use as a predictive assessment for continued language study beyond high school and as a placement tool by American colleges and universities for entering freshmen. NEWL is intended for high school students—both traditional and heritage learners—seeking college credit and/or placement.  Endorsed by the College Board, NEWL is intended to provide students an opportunity to demonstrate their language skills and to earn credit and/or placement into a college level language program. The exam targets students’ language proficiency in the Novice High to Intermediate High levels across four skills: Reading Comprehension, Listening Comprehension, Writing, and Speaking. 
1. The College Level Russian class is sponsored by the University at Albany’s, University in the High School’s Program.  Students can enroll in the AUS201 as an official SUNY Albany student for 3 Undergraduate credits at a prorated cost. 
2. The College Level class for Heritage speakers (H) is sponsored by Stony Brook University’s ACE program.  Students can enroll in RUS213 as an official Stonybrook student for 3 undergraduate credits at a prorated cost.
3. When NEWL is needed for College Applications, credit and enrollment, students can write to the American Councils, give their name and the year of taken exam, and they will send them the official document with the overall grade and the breakdown. EXAMS@americancouncils.org
Russian for Business (Grade 12) - In 2016/2017 Staten Island Technical High School was honored to partner with the Pushkin State Russian Language Institute in Moscow, Russia, a renowned institution of higher learning.  Staten Island Technical High School is one of only 30 hub sites worldwide to spread knowledge of the Russian Language beginning with our Russian for Business Elective Course offered for seniors based on the Pushkin State Russian Language Institute Curriculum.  Students in this class speak in Russian to learn to communicate in the business world to study international relations and prepare themselves to assimilate to Russian cultures and the world of economics and partnership.  Students use project based learning to delve into the world of business using Russian Company profiles, Reports for each business quarter, and to communicate with local businesses and business owners.
Russian Seal of Bi-Literacy (Graduation Candidates) - Students may earn the New York State Seal of Biliteracy (NYSSB) as a diploma endorsement upon graduation, which recognizes high school graduates who attained a high level of proficiency in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in one or more languages, in addition to English. Many students, by Junior year, are well on their way to obtaining the Seal of Biliteracy. Participating in the Seal of Biliteracy will affirm your identities and experiences and  will positively impact your College, Career Readiness and your achievements as a multilingual learner.
Although this is only an overview of our program, we are working constantly to build stronger relationships between our students and their knowledge of Russian literature, culture, and of course language.  Over the years SITHS has participated in National Russian Essay Contests, participated in and hosted the National Olympiada of Spoken Russian, and for many years has taken our students to Moscow and St. Petersburg either by student Exchange or for a short study abroad.  In school, we celebrate with traditional festivals for Maslenitsa (the end of Winter/the Russian Sun Festival), International Women’s Day, and Pushkin Day.  Russian Language has become part of our school’s culture and students work with both the History department and the English Language Arts department to incorporate as much learning into the student experience here at Staten Island Technical High School as possible.
























































Performing Arts
	

Performing Arts:
Concert Bands - Staten Island Technical High School offers four major band classes:
* Freshman, Symphonic, Concert, Wind Ensemble


Jazz Ensemble - Staten Island Technical High School Jazz Ensemble is currently made of 
select students in grades nine through twelve.


String Ensemble - Staten Island Technical High School String Ensemble is currently made 
up of students who play the Violin, Viola, Cello and Upright Bass.


Marching Band - Staten Island Technical High School Marching Band is currently made 
up of students in the 10th, 11th and 12th grades.


Drama-
* The Performing Arts classes focus on scene study, performance skills, intro to improvisation, the cultural impact of the performing arts (television, movies, Broadway) and overall theatrical production.  
* Students stage two major theatrical works yearly - SING / Spring Musical.  Scripts, sets, music, choreography and production are student created and presented for SING. The Spring Musical presents the opportunity to participate in a full-length Broadway Musical Production.


Performing Arts Course Descriptions


Band Classes
Freshmen Band (Grade 9) - Freshmen Band is for beginning students, as well as those who are getting down the basics for performing in a band setting. The Freshmen Band’s emphasis is on acquiring the fundamentals: posture, instrument knowledge, note-reading skills and rehearsal technique. Students will develop basic musicianship through the practice and performance of concert works & exercises in a large ensemble setting, develop and improve proper playing technique. NYSSMA Level III
Concert Band (Grade 10) - continues the track started in Freshmen Band, by applying note-reading skills, musicianship, rehearsal techniques to increasingly challenging literature. Students will improve basic musicianship skills through the practice and performance of concert works & exercises in a large ensemble setting as well as develop and improve proper playing technique. NYSSMA Level IV
Symphonic Band (Grade 11/12) - continues the track started in Freshmen Band, by applying note-reading skills, musicianship, rehearsal techniques to increasingly challenging literature. Students will improve basic musicianship skills through the practice and performance of concert works & exercises in a large ensemble setting as well as develop and improve proper playing technique. NYSSMA Level IV
Wind Ensemble (Grade 10/11/12) Wind Ensemble is the highest level band at Staten Island Technical High School. Students who have been promoted to this level demonstrate a high degree of proficiency on their chosen instrument. In this class, we explore deeper listening, precision of execution, phrasing, balance and blend and interpretive style. Chamber Winds focuses on performing advanced high school and early college level works of significant length and artistic depth. NYSSMA Level VI.                   Prerequisites: Audition only, instructor approval.
Jazz Ensemble (Grade  9/10/11/12) This premier performing group placing strong emphasis on advanced high school and collegiate repertoire requiring jazz improvisation from all selected musicians.  The musicians enjoy performances throughout the school year, including participation in the Essentially Ellington jazz festivals and NYSSMA Level VI.                       Prerequisites: Audition only, instructor approval.
String Ensemble  (Grade 9/10/11/12)  The String Ensemble emphasis is on acquiring the fundamentals: posture, instrument knowledge, note-reading skills and rehearsal technique. Students will develop basic musicianship through the practice and performance of concert works & exercises in a large ensemble setting, develop and improve proper playing technique. Students perform throughout the school year.
Chamber Music (Grade 9/10/11/12)  Staten Island Technical High School has the following chamber music groups; Saxophone Ensemble (2), Brass Ensemble and Mixed Ensemble. Students perform throughout the school year.                                 Prerequisites: Audition only, instructor approval.
Marching Band (Grade 10/11/12) Staten Island Technical High School Marching Band members receive a Physical Education credit for this class. The marching band performs at various festivals, competitions, parades, half-times, and other community functions. Prerequisites: Successful completion of 9th grade Health and of the 9th grade Physical Education credit.                 Audition only, instructor approval.
 
Drama
Theater Production (Grade 11/12) -  The Theatre Production elective class offers the opportunity for students to gain the confidence to perform in front of their peers and the knowledge of what goes on behind the scenes. Students will become well-versed in the roles within a theatre company, influential movie directors, the history of television, the Golden Age of Hollywood and broadway musicals, amongst other topics. The class studies and discusses the impact of performing arts on our society and culture both today and in the past. These units will be interspersed with performance opportunities such as monologues, scene study, improvisation, staged readings, and ballroom dancing. No prior experience is necessary to enroll in this class and your grade is determined not by your level of talent but rather your desire to learn and the effort put forth.


Performing Arts Faculty
* Heather Brown 
* Robert Rams 




















Health & Physical Education
	

How can we foster a lifelong love of being physically active?  The answer to this question is the challenge of every physical education teacher and student.  The menu of courses offered ranges from traditional team sports to more individual focused classes.  The end result is wellness through improved health and physical fitness. 
* Students entering grades 10-12 may select from the following classes including: Weight Training, Fitness, Volleyball, Dance, Basketball and Marching Band. (See course descriptions below.)
* All students, in all Physical Education classes, are trained and assessed via the NYC FitnessGram. 
* There are 46 Public School Athletic League (PSAL) teams in which students can participate, many of which are Staten Island and New York City Championship teams.




Health & Physical Education Courses
Health (Grade 9)
Physical Education (Grades 9 - 12)
Fitness (Grades 10 -12)
Basketball (Grades 10 -12)
Badminton (Grades 10-12)
Dance (Grades 10 -12)
Table Tennis (Grades 10-12)
Volleyball (Grades 10 -12)
Volleyball Advanced (Grades 10 -12)
Weight Training (Grades 10 -12)
Team Physical Education (Grades 10 -12)
Marching Band (Grades 10 -12)


Health & Physical Education Faculty
* Heather Brown
* Matthew Granite
* Michael Grippo 
* David Mahon 
* James McCarthy 
* Amanda Nudelman
* Jessica Ragucci 


Health & Physical Education Course Descriptions
Health (Grade 9) - Health Education is an essential academic subject that teaches young people to take care of their minds, bodies, and the people around them. Health education builds a foundation for academic success by teaching all students how to make healthy and informed decisions.   In order to graduate, students are required to complete one term of health education and seven terms of physical education.  Students are encouraged to explore various components of health including: Physical Health and Nutrition, Emotional Health, Social Health, Mental Health, and Environmental Health.
Physical Education (Grades 9-12) - Physical Education class is a traditional PE class that encourages physical activity through various team sports such as soccer, football, basketball, volleyball, softball, tennis and other team oriented ball sports.   Throughout each of the disciplines,  each sport’s rules and practices are covered. Students are required to work in groups that encourage the principles of teamwork, compassion, encouragement and perseverance. Freshman physical education class is conducted as an introduction into high school physical education and the key components of sportsmanship and fitness in an effort to ignite a lifelong love of being physically fit. 


Dance (Grades 10-12) - This class is designed to enhance your love and appreciation of dance through movement. Dance routines span a multitude of genres including but not limited to jazz, hip hop, multicultural, and lyrical dance
Fitness (Grades 10-12) - This course emphasizes the basics of yoga, meditation and other cardiovascular fitness including the use of freeweights and an individual’s bodyweight. Students will build endurance and reflect on their own fitness plan.
Basketball (Grades 10-12) -  Students have the ability to apply for basketball physical education.  This class is for students who wish to concentrate their physical fitness experience in the fast moving sport of basketball.  This class will cover the rules, as well as the fundamental and intermediate skills of the game.  
Badminton (Grades 10-12) - for students who want to improve their overall badminton skills and learn the strategies and positions related to badminton.
Marching Band (Grades 10-12) - for students who already are and active part of the school’s music program.  This class performs at various off-site festivals, competitions, parades, halftimes of PSAL games and other community functions.  Additional rehearsals are a requirement for this course.
Table Tennis (Grades 10-12) - for students who want to improve their overall table-tennis skills and learn the strategies related to table-tennis.
Team Physical Education (Grades 10-12) - Team physical education is designed for upperclassmen who are actively participating on a PSAL sports team from September through June.  Student athletes may apply for the class with a recommendation from their PSAL coach.   
Volleyball (Grades 10-12) -  for students who want to improve their overall volleyball skills and learn the strategies and positions related to volleyball.
Volleyball Advanced (Grades 10-12) - for students with above average volleyball skills oand the desire to learn advance strategies in the game of volleyball.  Registration for this course requires completing the basic Volleyball course or the recommendation of your physical education teacher.
Weight Training (Grades 10-12) - This is an introductory course designed to help each student improve muscular strength, understand weight training theory and practice, and develop a personalized weight training program.








































Dual Enrollment
In partnership with several colleges and universities, students have the opportunity to participate in college level courses, earning credit while simultaneously enrolled in the respective high school course.  Staten Island Tech has Dual-Enrollment and Articulation Agreements, with the following institutions:


* College Now Program - CUNY (The College of Staten Island and Kingsborough Community College) - Alternating Course Variety
* State Univeristy of New York at Stonybrook (SUNY) - College Level Russian Heritage
* St. John’s University - College Creative Writing
* The College of St. Rose - Forensic Science / Criminal Justice
* The College of Staten Island - CUNY - CAD / Civil Engineering & Architecture 
* New Jersey Institute of Technology - Pending Admissions / Transcript Review.
* University at Albany - SUNY - College Level Russian
* University of Iowa - Career Financial Mgmt & Entrepreneurship (BizInnovator)


Advanced Placement 
Currently, 17 AP courses are offered at S.I.Tech throughout the subject disciplines as core and electives courses.  Due to the highly selective criteria and seat limitations, the absence of AP courses on a student’s transcript is not indicative of their desire to take AP courses.  Students are encouraged to participate in our dual-enrollment programs/partnerships, if AP courses are not available to them.
Staten Island Technical High School, 485 Clawson Street, Staten Island, New York 10306
T: (718) 667-3222  F: (718) 668-3095